
WHO WE ARE

DeepNeuron is a student team focused on improving the world with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and High-Performance Computing (HPC).

With more than 80 members, we encompass a myriad of talent internal teams - Deep Learning, High-Performance Computing, Marketing, Industry, Outreach and the Law & Ethics Committee.


WHAT WE DO

Our technical teams partner with researchers from various fields to design custom AI or HPC solutions, and compete in international competitions. 

Our non-technical teams strive to educate and empower anyone who is interested, regardless of experience, on the wonderful world of HPC and AI.


MEET OUR TEAM

We are a passionate team, built by students for students. With members from Computer Science, Engineering, Arts, and Law, we are very diverse and very proud! Click here to learn more.


EXPLORE OUR PROJECTS

We carry out projects of varying scopes; from the field aerospace, science, medicine, gaming, to psychology. Click here to learn more about our projects!


ROLE INFO 

 We have technical roles for if you’re a quick-thinking problem solver who’s keen to use deep learning or HPC to shape our future. We are looking for people with a passion for AI, research and helping others. If coding is not your domain but still want to get involved there are also non technical roles across our business, marketing and operations branches. 

See below for more details & check out our Recruitment Tips page!

PROJECT TEAMS

Deep Learning Member: 

Deep Learning team members will be able to work on one of our many exciting projects which you can learn more about in the projects tab of our website. Members will be brought up to speed in deep learning and our use of PyTorch through a set of training workshops before being allocated. 

HPC member: 

High Performance Computing (HPC) is about solving computationally heavy tasks with high speed.  HPC members will work on a project which aims to improve the performance of a program and utilise large computational resources.


MARKETING TEAM
Design Coordinator

Is responsible for all visual content for Monash DeepNeuron. This role largely involves creating print, web and social content for events, campaigns and promotional material for our sponsors. You will also be heavily involved in the marketing processes for Monash DeepNeuron, which requires administrative duties such as surveying consumers and attending weekly meetings. Proficiency in Adobe suite is desired but not mandatory.
Media / Publications Officer

Is responsible for online communications and publications from Monash DeepNeuron. You will be required to work closely with all the branches to create curated content that will go live on all our platforms. These could include social posts, newsletters and blog posts so strong written communication skills and an interest in AI and HPC are desired. As a member of the marketing team you will also be involved in weekly meetings and brainstorming marketing campaign ideas and strategies. 


BUSINESS TEAM
Industry Representative

The industry representative will assist our industry partnership manager in the organisation of the sponsorship team. They will also be responsible for contacting members of industry to seek sponsorship agreements for Monash DeepNeuron as will as helping run DeepNeuron industry events such as Q&A panels or networking events. 
OUTREACH TEAM
Outreach Team Member

Is responsible for addressing issues associated with accessibility to technology and aim to increase awareness and interest surrounding AI and in doing so, making it more accessible for all. This includes materializing our team's vision via the delivery of outreach workshops which will present opportunities for an introduction to the exciting world of AI and a chance to interact with these technologies. 


LAW & ETHICS COMMITTEE
274087613_1303505603453376_274281801143364445_n.jpg274098046_1303485646788705_5936750974534263314_n (3).jpg274641934_1307830856354184_7815378022427634017_n.jpg273945302_1301561523647784_935716400086056542_n.png
L&e cOMMITTEE LEAD

Manage a team of 5 talented students, carry out initiatives and show off your leadership skills! 

Within our team, we want you to help us to educate, advocate and demonstrate to people the importance of creating ethical and lawful Artificial Intelligence. 
L&E Committee Member

What do you get to do?

Be a part of an incredible team, come up with innovative ideas and be at the forefront of events.

    Lead innovative and educational workshops, hackathons and moots

    Connect with external groups such as law firms, research centers, student clubs and charities

    Lead philosophical debates and develop an ethical framework that safeguards our AI project

    If you are interested, you can learn about AI from the team!



How do I write a stand-out application?

Run through these tips and you will be sure to make a good impression.
Tips for All Applications & Interviews

DON’T 😠

    Write two or three sentence responses

    List brief dot points responses

    Include spelling or grammar mistakes

    Give general responses with no examples


DO 😍

    Give a project specific to your area a go

    Give justice to showing off your soft skills

    Show you are passionate

    Give an insight to who you are as an individual

    Link your answer directly to the question

    Clearly explain what you have done in the roles you have listed



